# Intro to UNIX, Assignment 1: Password cracking
## By Timothy Boye s3482043

### Running
1. Check script for correct binary locations and word file names.
2. The database of passwords must be passed in via STDIN and the script can take optional parametres defining the word files. To run the script enter "./s3482043 [common words file name] [dictionary file name] < <password database file name>" or enter "cat <password database file name> | ./s3482043 [common words file name] [dictionary file name]" without the quotes, where <> is required and [] is optional. 
Optional values assume defaults of s3482043.common.words and s3482043.linux.words when no value is passed in.
3. The program copies the passwords file to a temp file so it can delete passwords as it finds them as well as delete any lines that don't meet the style [username]:[password]. By default this file is called s3482043.passowrds.copy. Further any passwords that are cracked are displayed on screen and saved to the file s3482043.cracked.passwords by default.
3. Wait... A very long time...

### Sources
#### Common Words
My common words are from https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists/tree/master/Passwords which contains many password files, the one I chose was 10_million_password_list_top_1000, it is quite an extensive list but not so extensive it takes hours to go through.
#### Dictionary Words
~e20925/linux.words as provided.

### Notes
* The sed command works differently in apple's version of bash compared to the core teaching servers, I wrote the program on apple's bash GNU bash, version 3.2.57(1)-release (x86_64-apple-darwin17) and then converted the sed commands to use the coreteaching servers layout of arguments. This program should work perfectly on those servers however slowly, if you do not run it on them however please keep in mind those calls may need updating again.
* This program writes the passwords found and not found to files on disk.